[music] &gt;&gt; Well, well, well, we are right back in Tech Timber [music] and today Apple had their annual fall event where they reveal all their new iPhones. Except, they didn't unveil all the newest iPhones today. They had to make room for the big important folding thing. So, with this event we just got the new iPhone 18 Pro and Pro Max and the new folding one. And so, the new base iPhone and probably the new Air and the new SE are going to be early next year. Honestly, welcome new cycle. So, welcome to your hands-on and first look at the brand new Pro iPhones and a long-awaited folding one. Now, the 18 Pro. These are pretty easy because they look the same. The designs and the sizes and all the fundamentals are still the same and basically everything new here on the inside is things that I think will require some testing to see if they're actually big difference-makers or not. Like, there's a new A20 Pro chip in there, which is awesome. It's now a 2 nanometer chip and has 50% more memory bandwidth, which is also sick. Now, how much of a performance increase will it translate to or how many efficiency gains will we actually see? That's yet to be determined, but there's a few bullet points from the keynote that are giving me hope. Like, these really big battery life boost claims. They're saying the new 18 Pro will have the same battery life as a 17 Pro Max and the new 18 Pro Max will have the best battery life ever in an iPhone, which, you know, you'd hope it gets better year after year, but the capacities don't look all that different. So, that should be good. And then, there's also a new variable aperture lens on the main camera, which we'd heard the rumors about. So, instead of just being locked wide open all the time, it can actually stop down with manual control, which, yes, before you type your comment, is just like what we saw eight years ago with the Samsung Galaxy S9. Except, that was two apertures. That was wide open or stopped down. It was F1.5 or F2.4. This one in the camera app actually has four stops that you can cycle between on demand. And yes, just like Samsung's phones from back in the day, you can actually see the physical aperture opening and closing with those blades with that manual control if you get enough light on it. And this is also a much larger sensor than what Samsung was working with back in those S9 days. So, there's potentially maybe more of a difference between wide open and stopped down. But again, that's going to require some testing. But I just, you know, I respect and appreciate new hardware features. So, I am willing to give this a chance. The Dynamic Island at the top is 25% smaller thanks to them specifically moving the Face ID infrared camera out, but it's now behind the display all the way in the left-hand corner. So, there's a slightly different pixel matrix up in the top left. You honestly cannot tell 99% of the time with the naked eye. And now that smaller cutout in the middle means there's more room so you can have up to three live activities instead of just two. It's welcome. And then yeah, pretty much the only other real new thing here is the new colors. So, we can enjoy the new burgundy, which kind of seems to be the flagship color, but there's also glacier, which is a light blue. There's a new silver, which is kind of boring, but it's also a little more uniform than the last one, which had a different color for the glass versus the metal. And then there's finally finally finally a fully matte black 18 Pro. And I think that's the one that's really calling my name. I think the logical thing to do right now is just to make sure you get subscribed so you can be the first to see the stuff that gets tested and see if it's actually good or not in the full reviews of these phones. So, just hit the subscribe button down there. Just just click that. Just click it. Okay, great. So, the new Pro phones are 11.99 to start and the new Pro Maxes are 12.99 to start. So, yes, that is 100 bucks more again than last year. The price increases are hitting everyone, obviously. And Apple's also quietly increased the prices of older iPhones that they're still selling, too. So, 100 bucks more for a 16 or a 17E, that stuff is all on their site. You can check it out. But it's not top of the lineup anymore. The new top of the lineup is the one more thing that we all saw coming, the first genuinely new form factor of the iPhone since we first saw it launch back in 2007. The first folding iPhone. This is the iPhone Duo. And man, this phone is so interesting. So, this is what I want to focus this video mostly on since we'll cover all the rest of the stuff in more videos later. And it's funny, we knew what to expect. We saw all the rumors. We knew this is what it would look like, but I was just still so excited to hold it and actually use it and feel the crease and the weight and the shape and everything. So, first of all, the fundamentals, right? This is a passport-shaped book style foldable, 5.4-in display on the front, kind of on the small side, but high refresh rate, corner hole punch cutout. The frame is titanium, and the rails are rounded to grip to open so that when you open it up, we have a 7.6-in display. Also, high refresh rate and plenty bright. Uniform bezels all the way around. But, this one has a few more interesting traits. So, the way you can think of it basically is it's an iPhone when it's closed, and it's like an iPad Mini when it's open. Like, that's the basic value prop, right? You can't take an iPad Mini everywhere with you cuz it doesn't fit in your pocket. But, what if it could? It folds in half. That's what this could look like. So, yeah, when it's closed, more or less, it's a squat iPhone, but with some adjustments. It's obviously a bit thicker since it's a foldable. And I'll talk about the competition in a second. But, there's also no Face ID, you'll notice, and that's because the power button on the right is also a Touch ID fingerprint reader on that right-hand rail. And then, the software, interestingly, weights a lot of these UI elements over to the right-hand side for reachability. So, I personally, I find the smaller display already mostly pretty reachable already, but they put a whole dock over here to the right-hand side instead of the bottom. And then when you open it, it does this sweet animation, this this kind of progressive fade out of the screen that you're on to the screen that you're switching to. And then you're on this inside display, this big 7.6-in screen. So, you can kind of think of this as two of that outside screen stapled together side by side. They're actually mirrored. So, like a lot of the other foldables, if you change your home screen layout on the outside screen, that also reflects on the inside screen. If you add pages to one, it adds pages to the other. And then this inside screen you actually notice is corner-to-corner seamless because they have hidden the selfie camera behind the glass. It's up here in the middle of the right hand side. And you mostly don't see it whenever there's anything on the screen, but it's there. And then the entire display has this nano texture sort of matte coating on the top layer, which does a few things. It really effectively cuts down on reflections. Like I can verify that just being in bright environments, no matter how I'm holding it, the lights never become an issue. But also, because it cuts reflections so much, it actually does a great job hiding the crease, which is already pretty minimal. I honestly found this right around the same level as the Oppo Find N6 as basically the least crease I've ever seen on a folding phone. It's definitely not gone, but between this hinge design, which has, you know, carbon fiber support plates, and the top layer of ultra-thin glass being pretty stiff, and the anti-glare finish, the only time you can realistically perceive this crease is when you're really looking for it or running your finger over it, which doesn't really happen much. The iPhone Duo also does have MagSafe, uh does have the A20 Pro chip inside, has a new C2 cellular modem, which is faster and adds 5G millimeter wave, and it has dual cameras on the back, a new 48-megapixel primary, which, without any testing, I have to assume is probably on the smaller side versus the flagships, and then actually the same ultra wide camera as the 18 Pro. And this software has a lot to it. I I I was first seeing it just trying to figure out like, is this iOS or is it iPad OS or neither or both? Like, what is it really? I think what I've landed on is it's like it's like iOS plus a little like with a little sauce. Obviously, the reachability stuff and the dock on the side are new. Like, you won't find that on a regular iPhone. And then the continuity also between the inside screen and the outside screen, like that's pretty standard stuff, but it's executed very smoothly. Like, this animation I it's so good between open and closed. It's obviously really cool-looking, but it also opens really quickly to whatever's on the right-hand side of the interior screen. The apps when you're using them open are all pretty much iPad apps the way they behave with multiple columns. And then of course, you can multitask a bit by throwing two apps side by side next to each other with some gestures that I'll dive more into in the full review, but generally, they're pretty intuitive and things flow the way you expect them to. Now, the elephant in the room, at least in my world, is this thing right here, the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 8. This came out a few months ago and it's been pretty hot. This I people love this thing. I love this thing. And it's basically the same idea as a product. It's a small, squat, passport-shaped foldable. It's got the dual cameras on the back, flagship chip, super thin. So, you're probably wondering, all right, Marques, how do these compare? And my take is functionally, they're very similar. They're really not that different from each other. They both have dual cameras like I said, one main and one ultra wide. They both have the flagship chip available to them. They both have solid battery despite being barely thicker than a USB type C port. They both have a fingerprint reader on the power button, but just in my scattered couple hours of using the iPhone Duo today, the iPhone has a bunch of these tiny, frankly unnecessary, but also very awesome, quality of life things that make it feel like a more fun phone to use. I forget the specs and numbers and like raw horsepower and megapixels and stuff, but just just the the fit and finish and the little animations and stuff like that and the feel of it. I feel like the the iPhone kind of mogs the Samsung. Like it really all starts with that animation switching between the inner and outer display. It's really clean and it's fast. I'm used to having at least a tiny bit of delay when I slap a folding phone shut before the outside screen lights up, but this one had no delay. This was exceptionally fast every single time, even while doing that animation. And all the other little animations, like when closing the camera app on the inner screen where it goes from those blacked-out pixels that the camera can see through back to all the pixels from your wallpaper, that's so clean. Also expanding your quick settings on the right, they kind of fall out of the corner as you swipe down. That also felt very nice. Uh the interior display, this coating on it, like I said, it's really smart. It blocks reflections extremely well, so it hides the crease visually quite nicely. And it's also kind of smooth to the touch, kind of like the Oppo Find N6 was. So your finger just glides over it. And somehow later this year it's going to support the USB Type-C Apple Pencil on both the inner and outer screens. The volume buttons, interestingly, are not on the side of the phone next to the power button. They're at the top, which is maybe a little weird at first. I didn't know how to feel about that, but what I do know is it means that the volume always follows the direction of the buttons. Right to go up, left to go down. And the speakers, I would say, are objectively in the best spot they can be for a foldable. So at the top, it's at the front, and at the bottom, it's on the back. So, when you open it, you still have a speaker on the left and the right half, so you can still do a solid stereo sound. And also, unexpectedly, the whole thing is IP68 water and dust resistance rated. You can theoretically submerge it, pour water on it. It should be fine. I think the only other foldable that can say it does that is the Pixel 10 Pro Fold. So, that's promising for durability. And then, the ability to use the phone half open in a couple different ways, that's also nice. There are some foldables with a too stiff of a spring weight. Like, Samsung's Fold 8 doesn't really do this so well. But, with the iPhone Duo, you can use it half open if you want, and a lot of apps are responsive enough to take advantage of this, too. And you can even put it in standby mode by locking it while in tent mode. It'll show you a clock or your alarm. It'll wake you up with a soft, gentle glow. All these little, super nice, clever things. So, it's got it's stacking up like a bunch of really, really nice, clever things, neat animations, clean stuff. But, also, I I've reviewed a lot of other foldables on this channel. You might have watched a bunch of those other videos. And this thing also definitely has its downsides. I think the most obvious downside is the visual one, at least I think so. Uh the fact that this display on the cover screen is rounded on the right and then squared up on the left, so totally asymmetrical. It doesn't functionally make a huge difference, but some people are never going to let that go. And you know, maybe that's why they call it Duo, cuz the screen looks like the letter D. I don't know. Maybe more functionally important, though, is that the phone basically has to be held in your right hand, like a lot of other folds. But then, doubly so, since all the UI elements, like the dock, move to the right-hand side, and I don't see any settings to move that stuff to the left. And then, speaking of that dock, only four items in the dock. I tried adding one. It didn't let me. I could take stuff out, but I couldn't add a fifth item to the dock. And then, the under-screen selfie camera on that big screen. It's cool that it's hidden, but we used to have these in the past and there's a reason why we don't have them anymore. It's just cuz they're bad. They just look really bad quality-wise. Samsung had these on a bunch of their older folds for a couple of years and they stopped doing it cuz we basically learned that people much prefer to just have a better quality camera and a little hole punch cut out is actually fine. This is what video looks like that I took from the Duo I was playing with from that under display selfie camera. And yeah, this is like decent lighting. It's just pretty bad quality video. And then of course no silicon carbon batteries, no ultra-fast charging, no zoom camera, all the other downsides we already knew about that were obvious. So, yeah, I feel like my take on this is it's it's not perfect, but it's got a lot going for it and I think this is going to be a really fun phone for people to use who were thinking about maybe getting a folding one, but they were on the iPhone side of the fence so they couldn't get one before, but now they can. And if you're watching this on YouTube thinking, "Who is that person? Who was even asking for this? Who wants foldables?" Uh, they're not so popular here, but in China, they are popular. Uh, China actually bought more foldables than the entire rest of the world combined last year. So, there are a lot of foldables out there and Apple of course wants to play in that market and sell phones to those people too. Now, there's an iPhone that folds. So, it's $2,000 starting. Two bands is the cheapest that you can get this phone, which is obviously expensive, but it's actually a little bit a little bit less than I was expecting going into this. Just for per- perspective, the Fold 8 starts at 1,800 bucks and a lot of these other foldables are very expensive. So, I could see, you know, with the Apple tax and RAM-ageddon and just generally new things being expensive, I could have seen this being more. So, this is lower than I thought it could have been. Uh, but it's coming out in October. So, we got a couple more weeks to think about it before the pre-orders open up. Also, just want to say it is objectively hilarious now that Apple in 2026 is the company that has a product named the Neo and the Duo. If you know, you know. But let me know what you guys want to see in the full review and what else you're curious about. Plus Apple did also release a couple other products alongside these phones today, like the new AirPods 5 with better noise cancellation and a couple more features from the Pros for 129 bucks. And the new Apple Watch Series 12, which has some really freaky sounding always listening features that I have some conspiracy theories about, so stay tuned for that. It's September, baby. Buckle up. Get subscribed. And shout out to Ridge for sponsoring this video. So channel sponsor Ridge has a bunch of accessories that will [music] really cleanly match the colors of your iPhone, including the new iPhones. So their famous [music] power bank offers five-in-one power delivery, so you can charge multiple items at once, and it's MagSafe compatible for easy charge-ups on the go. Ridge's power bank also works with the iPhone Duo, wired or MagSafe, cuz they didn't mention it during the presentation, but [music] that phone does have it. There's also the tracker card that can help you track items in a credit card-sized form. &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; Just slip it into your wallet or any bag and it will play a loud ring whenever you need to locate it whenever you're close. And best of all, it's compatible with both iPhone and Android. [music] Now also available in Basecamp Orange. And lastly, the Ridge wallet, of course. Ridge [music] has reworked the MagSafe version to sit flush on your phone, and it's now stronger and more secure. And best of all, just like their power banks, [music] they've got versions to color match the new iPhones, so everything looks sleek. Or if you're like me, I love the transparent versions like this one in Phantom. So check out everything by heading over to ridge.com/mkbhd. Thanks for watching, [music] and I'll catch you guys very soon in the next one. Peace.